[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Well, they say we need
to teach what we most need
to learn.
And I was teaching what
I most needed to learn.
>> Synchronicity, which is
a meaningful coincidence,
is where physics and
spirituality come together.
>> Every day you go out there
and you are shooting yourself
in the foot with a gun, and you
don't even realize the smoking
gun is still in your hand.
>> How much time in our day
do we spend actually exploring
what's within?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> If it is possible to gain
information that transcends
space and time, it means
there are no secrets.
It's like politics
would vanish instantly
if there were no secrets.
>> It is scary to think we
have this connection over time
and space.
So what do we do with that?
If that's really real, which
we sort of sense that it is,
it's terrifying.
>> Science itself is an
act of consciousness.
It's what the human mind does.
So how can you define science
and exclude the human mind?
>> We cannot be truly happy or
peaceful while we're hurting
somebody else in any
way, shape, or form.
>> It's a world of unity
expressed in diversity.
[THEME MUSIC]
>> Intuition.
I guess tuition is
teaching, right?
And inner teaching,
is that what it means?
What does intuition even mean?
I'm not even sure what it means.
>> Our intuition is basically
our ability to know what we
need to know when
we need to know it.
It's this divine orchestration
of life in our favor
and for the higher good.
>> Although it's become sort
of language as our sixth sense,
this is our first sense.
This is absolutely
100% imperative
to our daily survival
at every level.
If your gut doesn't
tell you when
to step aside or step forward
or move away or do this or that,
you'll not be very successful
in your environment.
>> I find it very valuable
for finding parking spaces.
That's not a simple thing.
Some people can never find them.
I have the damnedest luck
with finding a parking space.
>> My wife would go, "I think
I'll go in the store on Main
Street," and she'd walk in
and find our daughter skipping
school in that one store.
My daughter complained, "I
can't get away with anything,"
because mom was so
telepathic with her.
>> We have the capacity to
increase our understanding
of what it means to be
alive, why are we here?
And even the big questions
like, what happens when we die?
Is there something after we die?
>> Everybody is intuitive.
Everyone can sense things.
For example, if we're
going to go to a party,
we see someone over there,
they seem to be a little shy,
we see someone
else, very outgoing,
we feel some people's anger, we
feel some people's uptightness.
We sense different feelings
when we're around people.
This is a very
common experience.
And this is intuition.
>> It's as integral as
looking through my eyes,
hearing with my ears.
It's part of who I am because
it's not something you do.
It's something you are.
>> What we're doing is we're
reading out the environment
around us internally
and externally.
It's an embodied knowing
that comes from listening
to what wants to happen next.
>> Most people have had the
experience of feeling like
somebody's staring at them.
And you turn around
and sure enough.
There are actually
a couple of studies
that have proven that
that's a real sensitivity.
That's a real signal.
Empathy, feeling what
others are feeling
through the magnetic
energetic interactions,
these are all parts or examples
of energetic sensitivity,
that type of intuition.
And some people actually
can feel earthquakes coming.
I mean, there really are people
with that level of sensitivity.
>> The analogy I like to give
is that if you imagine yourself
in a forest, you know that
straight ahead is paradise.
Now, logically, to
your thinking mind,
you're like, "OK, well, I
want to get to paradise.
That's straight ahead.
I should go straight."
But the intuition has
the bird's eye view
and can see that if you
were to go straight,
you're actually going
to end up at a cliff.
And the way that it
communicates that to you
is it gives you a little hit.
It gives you a
feeling of excitement.
feeling of adventure.
It gives you good
feelings that would
be enjoyable to listen to.
The thinking mind is going like,
no, I shouldn't go that way.
That looks like the
long way around.
I should go straight
and you're going
to end up having to backtrack
and take more time than had you
just gone to the left where
the intuition was leading you
in the first place.
So everyone has a
sense of intuition.
It's just a matter of how much
do you choose to listen to it.
>> Intuition is like a big
umbrella for lots of things.
I like the umbrella analogy,
it's always really good.
So intuition has
underneath it, things
like subconscious intuition.
I subconsciously
hear the thunder
and I knew it was raining
even though I didn't know,
that's how I knew.
So that's subconscious
intuition.
Then there's logical intuition
like you work long enough,
you don't have to think
about all the modus ponens
or any kind of
logical structures.
You just have this logic, oh
that makes logical sense, OK,
that doesn't.
It just arises, all the rest is
sort of background information
that you're not
really conscious of.
Then there's things
like precognition
which is not logical intuition,
it's not sensory intuition,
it's not memory
intuition, it's not
based on anything that's
available in the present moment
as far as we know.
It's based on
information that seems
to be coming from the future.
>> Non-local intuition is what
you can't explain away through
the other types that kind of
crossed the boundaries of time
and space.
>> There's clairvoyance which
means clear seeing in which
you're seeing visually
through the inner eye.
Usually with eyes
closed, you're seeing
something in your inner vision.
Clairaudience means you're
hearing some subtle message.
It's not hearing somebody's
voice in the room.
It's actually you're
hearing either words being
fed into your mind or you're
hearing perhaps some music,
some sounds, but nothing
in the environment.
And then there's clairsentience
where you get gut feelings.
You just have a sense, you're
led in a certain direction,
you're feeling things.
Most people are clairsentient.
>> So those are the kinds of
experiences then that are very
similar to what people talk
about as mystical, as psychic.
And it includes things like
channeling and mediumship
and possibly
near-death experiences.
All of that, the whole
realm of unusual experiences
that are actually quite
common except that we
know very little about them
from a scientific perspective.
>> One of the biggest
criticisms about intuition is it
doesn't make rational sense,
that you can't really prove it
in science, through
science methodology.
Here's the most ironic
thing about that statement.
Part of the scientific process
is developing a hypothesis.
It's coming up with a hunch
that there's a better way
to do something.
>> Some of the most
amazing studies come out
of somebody's intuition while
they're having a shower or even
a dream or something like that.
Like I dreamt that I need to
do this experiment, it fits in.
>> The interesting thing
about these things under this
umbrella is they all are
separated out by where is
the information coming from?
Is it coming from sense?
Is it coming from logic?
Is it coming from some
kind of sense of the future
that we don't understand?
And so it sort of
presumes this idea
that this is all
happening via exchange
of information or
reception of information
or processing of information.
And that doesn't
mean it is, that's
sort of a way to think about
it that makes sense to people.
>> You talk about downloads.
And I'm wondering
if you can describe
exactly what that looks like?
>> Yes, I can talk
about my experience.
I don't know about other people.
I think we all have varied
ways of receiving information.
I think we have to start
first with our state of mind.
My precognitive
downloads have always
come when I'm in a theta
brainwave state, which
is a light hypnotic state
that we are in as we begin
to awaken in the mornings.
You have delta, theta, then
we go into alpha and beta
in our busy lives.
So it's that kind of
half-awake half-sleep state
where our egos have
not come in, that is
just pure consciousness.
Downloads have
come spontaneously.
I've not thought about
anything beforehand.
They've just
arrived unannounced.
They showed me
directions to take
or actions that will
be for my benefit.
Or sometimes just a loving
message like my first one.
They are very clear.
They are visceral.
I can feel it's like
stepping into time
and I can actually
feel the experience
of being in that point in time,
seeing what's taking place,
and feeling the experience
of what's happening
at that point in time.
Actually, living it
for a few moments.
They have always had a
very crucial meaning.
They have created turning
points in my life.
And without them, I'm
not sure my mind would
have made the best decisions.
My father seemed to be a
normal, healthy, happy man
until I was seven years old.
We moved to Seattle where
he went to work for Boeing.
And he was so excited.
There came a day when my
father was handed a pink slip
and told, sorry, we're going
to have to lay you off.
It really, really destroyed
his self-confidence,
his self-image.
He stayed home every day and
drank and smoked and cursed
and burped and whatever
around us children,
while my mother went to work.
Six people on a bank
teller's salary.
So needless to say, our
lives were rather meager.
My parents really
didn't have friends.
They didn't have other
people they spent time with.
It was just the family and
work or whatever for my mom,
and church.
Church was more important
than anything to her,
it appeared, from
my perspective.
When I went to her for
advice when I was younger,
she would tell me, "just
pray, honey, just pray."
My father started to drink when
he was a child, like age 12.
He began to develop a drinking
problem at that young age.
And with time,
full-blown alcoholism.
After he lost his job,
he became very violent.
My mother would often go
to work with black eyes.
She would try to make
up excuses for him
like my little brother jabbed
her in the eye or something
when he was in bed with her,
something to protect my father.
And with the rest
of us children,
we learned to walk on eggshells
as we grew up because he
was very, very volatile.
He could fly off and send
someone flying across the room
or hit your head so
hard you saw stars.
One of my worst memories
was watching my father
take a hairbrush to my little
brother who was about 4 or 5
at the time and
just systematically
beating his little head
as hard as he could with--
I mean, it was abuse
with the hairbrush
so that he had a little
crewcut at the time
and there were raised black and
blue welts all over his head.
His offense was my
little sister was
crying so he was going
to punish my brother,
if that makes sense,
that's what happened.
When my mother came
home from work,
I still remember her saying,
"oh, John," my father's name
was John, "you shouldn't
do that to the children,"
and that was it.
There was an
unwritten rule where
you don't talk about what
goes on in the house.
You don't share what goes on.
And so in the
outside world, we'd
look like a normal happy family,
pretty much, but inwardly,
it was anything but.
By age 9, sexual
abuse began with me.
After he was finished with
me, he pushed me off the sofa,
I remember, and
said, "now, go play."
About age 10, abuse
was almost daily.
So I would find a way, I'd
maybe just run outside and play
or whatever I could
to get away from him.
And I finally did tell my mom.
She said, "well, honey, daddy's
just trying to help you."
And that was it.
And my thought was,
"help me what?"
In the summers at my
grandparents' house in Idaho,
I didn't have to cope.
I played and swam and fished
and ran and hiked and did
everything my tomboy
heart desired.
There was a big ponderosa pine
at the beginning of the trail
leading down to the lake.
And I could sit under that
what I called my thinking tree.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I would imagine
what it would feel
like never have to go back.
The still cigarettes
and still alcohol
and being afraid all the
time, I wanted to stay there
with my grandparents.
I could never figure out a way.
The time always came where
we had to get in the car
and go back.
My grandmother one day asked me
to walk down to the mailboxes
to get the mail for her.
I think she had two
pieces of mail that day.
And I was walking along
the railroad tracks that
led to the path to our home.
And I was walking balancing
on the railroad tracks
like kids always do.
There seemed to be kind of
like a shimmer, something
like in the air
changed in front of me.
And a woman, and she
looked quite old,
she must have been in her 30s.
I was 12, so she looked old.
She looked familiar
somehow and she told me,
she says, "I am an
older version of you.
And I am here with a message.
And that is to let you know
that you are deeply loved.
And that you will make
it through adulthood.
You will live," because that
was my fear that I would not
live through my childhood.
I never imagined
what I would look
like when I became old in my
30s, never entered my mind.
But I trusted her and carried
that message in my heart.
I vowed to myself
not to tell anyone
because people would think I
was a bit loopy, a bit crazy
to have experienced
something like that.
And so no one else knew.
But in times of challenge
throughout my childhood,
I remembered her message and
it really brought me hope.
I felt warmth and love
within, with that.
And that was my first download.
>> My family was a great
family, unconditionally loving,
wonderful, but also
really messed up.
And I had a borderline
abusive, I would say,
abusive situation going
on when I was a girl,
and I've since healed it.
But when this was
happening at nighttime,
and I'm not going to go into
it just to not trigger anyone,
but I would notice that
off to my right hand side--
here's my bed and off
to my right hand side,
there was a rocking chair.
It was empty usually.
And I saw with my mind's eye
an older version, an older
woman who at the time I
didn't recognize was myself.
But now that I know
what I look like,
I see that that was
probably myself.
And she would just
be there with me.
And she would just be kind.
And she would say, "you
know what, God loves you.
It's a frustrating
situation, you're
going to be angry at him,
it's OK, you should be angry
and you're going to be OK.
It's all going to turn out OK."
Again and again, she would
just say that kind of stuff.
It was very comforting.
And as I got older, and I
started to go into meditation
and start to think about this
kind of fabric of time stuff
with the move, the flag,
and stuff, I thought,
well, I'm going to take
the flag from the past
and I'm going to
move it here, and I'm
going to have a conversation
with my past self.
And I'm going to sit in
that room with that girl
and I'm going to tell
her it's going to be OK.
And that it's OK to be angry and
that she's got the right bead
on what's going on.
And that she's going
to turn out fine.
And I would do that
over and over again
when I had the resources.
And you know, I swear,
that was me in that room.
There's this idea
of the causality
going in both directions.
So now you could use as a
mental time travel healing tool
this idea that any
time you feel you have
an excess experience of
love and you're just feeling
so resourced and good and
everything, so mentally go back
and find a time when you're
not and love that self.
>> Can we take what we've seen
so far and make it do something
that is practical?
>> There's the results we get
with those kinds of systems,
it's actually pretty similar
to what we get with this.
>> Can we create something which
is a mind matter interaction
technology?
>> The theory underneath this
is that photons turn from waves
to particles as a result
of being observed.
So can you do that
with your mind alone?
That's what this
experiment tests.
>> So an easy way to describe
it is to make a psychic garage
door opener.
You go home and
rather than trying
to find the button to
open the garage door,
you just think
open and it opens.
Well, that would be
a really silly use
of this kind of
technology because we do
have buttons that will do it.
So we're interested in achieving
things that cannot be done
through conventional
technologies.
So I call this a
telegraph from the future.
In initial stages, you wouldn't
be getting like a telephone
call from the
future but you might
get information, small bits of
information from a future state
through a technology
of this type.
So this is a very
severe challenge
given the state of
scientific knowledge,
like it's pushing
us to push very
hard against what we think
we understand and put it
to the test.
In many cases,
we're going to fail.
But that's OK, in the process
we might learn something new.
>> To me, the third
eye is clear vision.
That clear vision can
be not only totally
now in the present
moment but can also
have clear vision for
potentially things
that have happened in the
past and also things that
are going to happen
in the future,
and to information, to knowledge
that may not be available
if the third eye
isn't open or clear.
Mostly, people will
relate to the third eye
as the pineal gland.
I think one of the
reasons why it's
related as the pineal
gland is because it's
this pinecone-shaped gland.
It's in the middle
of your brain.
Some people have
studied it and have
shown that there
are what's called
piezoelectric crystals in it.
And these are
crystals that actually
will emit an electrical
current with stress or strain.
So some people say that
that is the third eye
because some people see
a clear bright light
in the middle of-- in the
middle of your head somewhere.
My hypothesis, and I think some
others share this hypothesis,
is that it's the space
between the pineal gland
and the pituitary
gland, and the space
between the pineal gland
and the pituitary gland
also has the hypothalamus.
And the hypothalamus
is a structure
in the brain that essentially
controls homeostasis, controls
balance, releases
important hormones,
and there's also the thalamus.
So we have the thalamus.
The thalamus is an
incredible structure.
It's sort of like--
I call it like a relay center.
All our input, all
our sensory input
goes to the thalamus and the
thalamus helps filter it.
It helps to send it to the
appropriate parts of the brain.
And so it's sort of
like-- you sort of see it
as this relay center.
So imagine that
this space that has
the pineal gland in the back,
that's got the pituitary gland
in front, it's got the
hypothalamus on one side,
it's got the
thalamus, that space
is called the third ventricle.
That's actually
encasing the energy
of all of the pineal gland, the
pituitary, the hypothalamus,
and the thalamus.
All together as well as
from the center coming up
the central canal,
coming in with the flow
of the cerebrospinal fluid
into the third ventricle
that there's something
that happens,
some sort of alchemical
transformation
that occurs there.
And we can get into
frequencies and vibrations
and all that sort of stuff.
>> I was 15 when I received
my second download.
It was so horrible, so scary.
I thought it was a nightmare.
But yet it seemed so
real, so like I could feel
everything that was happening.
Two weeks later, that nightmare
began to play out for me.
I had returned home
from high school
and was standing
at the kitchen sink
washing the dishes
from breakfast
that everyone had left.
And my father had been home
all day, he'd been drinking,
and he began calling me
names and shoving me.
I was just doing
dishes, for Pete's sake.
I remember thinking,
gosh, this is
what I get for doing
the family dishes.
He began to shove me and
hit me and pushing me
down the hallway where I
ended up flat on my back
on the bed in the back bedroom.
My father's eyes
were like nothing
I'd ever witnessed before.
At this point, he was leaning
over me and slugging my face,
hitting me as hard as he could.
Blood was spurting everywhere.
My nightmare, my vision
was playing out just
as I'd seen it two weeks prior.
But the gift of that
vision showed me
how to save my own life.
So because I was in track
and my legs were strong,
I pulled my legs
back to my chest
and let them go right to where
it counts between his legs
and said exactly what the
vision showed me, "get off me,
you bastard," which
was the first time
I ever assaulted my father,
ever used profanity with him.
He was so stunned.
He stopped, bent
over to hold himself,
and that gave me just enough
time to run off the bed
and out the door to a
neighbor's to call the police.
I called my mom to come home
early from work, which she did.
Seeing the evidence, seeing
my face all black and blue
and bloodied, I think
finally convinced her
that we're living
with a man that we
shouldn't be living with.
She finally left my father.
She took all four of
us, she rented a home,
and we stayed with her.
Four of us and my
mom is really great,
but it didn't last forever.
My father came around
and next thing we knew,
she was back with him.
Maybe a year later, not very
long that we lived on our own.
It was heaven.
That was a turning point in my
relationship with my father.
From then on, he seemed to
have more respect for me.
And I can count the
vision as the tool,
the key to saving my life,
showing me what to do.
And it worked.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Of the outstanding
mysteries in science,
number one is the
origin of the universe,
and number two is the
origin of consciousness.
It's how is it that
we're aware of anything.
So from a neuroscience
perspective,
the assumption is that the
brain is like a computer
and somehow the
computer is very fancy
and it gives rise to
subjective awareness
even though nobody
knows how that could be.
The other assumption
or the other way
of thinking about this is that
consciousness is already here.
It's like it's in
everything to some degree.
And the brain then becomes
a very particular kind
of sensitive organ that can
express it in certain ways.
>> This consciousness that we
have access to is not limited
by time and space.
It's not limited by
a physical brain.
What is it?
And why do we keep insisting
on looking inside the head?
It's not inside the head.
It may be inside the heart.
I've always found it fascinating
that the ancient Egyptians when
they would be mummifying
their pharaohs
would pull out the brain and
toss it on the garbage heap
but they would
mummify the heart.
They knew something
that we have forgotten.
>> Clearly you're tapped into a
field that's non-local, right?
The assumption
that consciousness
is located in your brain or
in some part of your body
may be completely erroneous.
Your body may just
be an antenna that's
tuned to a certain set
of information that's
part of a field, right?
It's your participation
in this field
that you call consciousness.
>> Something comes into
my mind that says, oh,
do this experiment.
And I'm like, OK.
And so then I do the experiment
because I feel compelled
to do the experiment, and
then I find out something
and it's different than
whatever my thoughts were.
And it's always going to be
more than what's in my head
because my head is just
part of the universe.
So I have to-- but I have to
be connecting with is something
that's bigger than me.
I know that.
I can say that.
And I can also say
that it feels good.
I can say that it
feels positive.
It doesn't feel
like I'm connecting
with something that's bad.
>> You are in and part of
something so intelligent
and loving and ever present
that's always here even
on a very bad day.
>> Whether we want to use
the word God or source
or the universe or
life, I don't care.
I'm going to use a
God just because God
wants to give you everything.
We are here to live
heaven on Earth,
and life just
wants to serve you.
It just wants to give--
and I don't mean this
from a religious
sense whatsoever.
I just mean this is
how reality works.
It wants to give you everything.
It's paying you to be
here in this incarnation.
It's like thank you
for coming here,
let me give you everything
you want in return.
>> Max Planck, who is the
father of quantum mechanics,
was asked in 1931.
A reporter came up
to him and said,
you and Einstein are the most
famous scientists in the world.
What have you learned?
And his response was,
what I've learned
is that consciousness is
causal and fundamental.
Space-time arises from
consciousness, not
consciousness from space-time.
>> Defining consciousness is a
big task in that there are many
scientists for hundreds of
years who have tried to do that
and conferences around this
and journals around it.
And I would say that
probably nobody has come up
with a definition
of consciousness
that everybody agrees with.
>> For me consciousness
is awareness.
And awareness play out
on many different levels.
So it's sentience, it's a sense
of a knowingness and experience
and awareness that is
self and individuated.
>> Probably helps to
start with talking about,
are we talking about what some
would call big C or little C
consciousness.
Little C tends to be the
kind of consciousness
that neuroscientists talk about.
We're conscious when we
wake up in the morning
and we're conscious of
the world and our thoughts
and perceptions.
We go to sleep or unconscious.
Big C Consciousness,
it would be the type
that a lot of other people
think of in terms of, maybe
the simplest way to say, it
would be the intelligence
or the information
that underlies
the creation of the
universe and living systems.
>> Consciousness is
all about connectivity.
We are all supremely
intrinsically interconnected
on every level.
Nothing is separate.
And when you explore
consciousness,
when you discover
these incredible depths
to consciousness and to
the conscious experience,
we have far more resources to be
able to deal with what happens
in life and simultaneously
to be able to help
the people around us.
>> This idea that there's
something that we own
personally, that is
a part of the whole,
it makes it feel very
likely that we could tap
into the whole, that we're
already tapped into the whole.
And so it's not like we're
going to reel in this thing
that we don't have.
It's actually going
to be more like we're
going to cultivate
a relationship
with an aspect of our self
which is never not there.
That's beautiful.
>> It seems like it should
be natural to be interested
in the study of consciousness.
I mean, it's the one thing
we know we have for sure.
And yet the thought
of the world somehow
being other than purely
objective, purely
reductionistic, and
purely materialistic
is very scary to people.
PEAR was a research
laboratory that
was exploring the interaction
of human consciousness
with various kinds of random
physical processes and systems.
It was primarily an
engineering program
because the founder and director
of the lab, my late partner
Robert Jahn, was dean of
the engineering school
when the program was set up.
The anomalous phenomena
don't trouble me at all
but human nature does.
When we first set up
the lab, we didn't
have a room number or a name
for the lab at that time.
So I thought I was being very
clever to identify our door,
I put a Greek letter psi,
stands wave function,
it stands for psychology,
and of course, it
stands for psychic phenomena.
People would say, why do
you have a devil's pitchfork
on your door?
These were engineers, of course,
who wrote Schrodinger equations
every day of their life.
And I would say, that's
not a devil's pitchfork,
it's a Greek letter.
And they would look terrified.
>> It wasn't always this way.
The taboo is partially an
outgrowth of the Enlightenment
when the church
and science split.
>> The reason that consciousness
is not fundamental in science
and I got interested in
that, why would that happen?
And the answer is
the Council of Trent.
Between 1545 and 1563,
the Roman Catholic Curia
had a series of meetings
in Trento and Bologna.
Science is just beginning
to really become
a formal force in society.
>> There were a number of what's
called natural philosophers.
They weren't called
scientists then,
they were called natural
philosophers, who
wanted to understand the world.
Not just through religion, but
through experiment and testing.
And so the scientific
method was born.
>> So the church issued
an edict and they said--
>> The religious authorities
will look after the souls
of everyone, and the natural
philosophers were OK as long
as they just looked
at the physical world.
>> You guys in science, you
have things of materiality.
That's fine.
Things which involve
spirit, read consciousness,
that's our bailiwick.
>> Very sensible because if
you weren't willing to just
research the physical
world as a scientist,
you were potentially under
house arrest for the rest
of your life as a
heretic, as Galileo was.
Or you were burnt at the
stake like Giordano Bruno was.
>> The Inquisition actually
began in 1232 but it really
takes force with the
Council of Trent.
In general, for
most scientists, it
became a taboo
subject, consciousness.
It was just not worth the
hassle of getting into.
And so they didn't.
>> But it creates a schism.
And that schism just
grew, and so scientists
began to denigrate
religion and spirituality.
And spirituality sort
of kept on its track.
So the two just separated
literally in their worldviews.
>> And for almost 300 years,
that's the way things went.
I mean, the last person killed
by the Inquisition in 1826
was a Spanish teacher who
taught his students deism, which
the Inquisition found
to be unacceptable
and they garroted
this man in public.
And that's not very long ago.
>> Science brought us,
well, first of all,
the Enlightenment, the
Industrial Revolution,
and on and on.
It brought us all
the technologies
that make our lives
so much easier today.
But its basic premise
was that this material
realm, this realm, this
universe is all there is.
There are no other
realms beyond it.
Its appearance of separation
is its true reality.
That our universe is
essentially an accident
that evolution
proceeds by accidents.
That after a long, long, long
time, human beings emerged,
evolved, and somehow
our consciousness
arises from our material
brains, somehow.
That was the story.
So it's a story of
separation, of accident,
of meaninglessness,
and it's wrong.
It's utterly wrong.
>> You can think of the material
world like a superhighway
network of information
of the universe.
You can think of it almost
as the mind of the universe,
thinking.
And as it gets together and it
becomes more and more complex,
like all the particles get
together and they make a cell,
and then the cell divide
and make two cells
and gets more and more
complex, eventually
the flow of information
through the whole system
has enough bit rate, you can
think, to become self-aware.
The danger there is that
when it becomes self-aware,
it might think that it's
separate from the rest
of the universe
because it doesn't
know it's part of this
flow of information.
It's thinking, wow,
how did I get here
and what is this universe?
You see, and that's
really what's
happened to the human kind.
>> You take then the theories
that we understand from
a materialistic perspective
and try to say, well,
given those theories, how would
you explain how telepathy can
exist or precognition?
And you can do some hand-waving
on that to come up with ideas.
But it's not very persuasive
to most scientists.
You do surveys of what people
have actually experienced,
the vast majority,
up to 90% of people,
including scientists
and engineers,
say that they have
had these experiences.
But you also learn very
quickly in the academic world
that only certain ideas are
acceptable to talk about
in public.
So one of the reasons why we
don't talk about it in public
is because it sounds weird.
We don't know how to
make the connection yet
between our internal
experience of which there's
very broad range of strange
things that can happen,
and our models about
the way the world works.
So the academic system
around the world pretty much
uncritically accepts materialism
as the only viable way
or the only acceptable way to
understand how things work.
One of the reasons for that
is because it's so successful.
Most science is working
directly in the mode
of let's deconstruct
this thing and then we'll
figure out at a very small
level, we use reductionism.
It works.
It works really well.
It just doesn't
work for everything.
The other thing, of
course, is that when
you go through a
scientific career,
nobody has taught philosophy.
Like why would you need to
take philosophy of science?
Why would you need to know
about the sociology of science?
Those are considered very soft
from a scientific perspective
so they're generally not
taught so you can end up
being a professor who has never
taken a course in philosophy
and don't realize that
what you're studying
is set on a whole
bunch of assumptions.
Some of which may be true,
and some may not be so true.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I was always a good student
but in my household there was
never ever any talk about
going to college or university.
Never.
I decided after that whole
scenario with my father,
I'm going to marry my
high school boyfriend.
When we're old enough,
we'll get married
and we'll live happily
ever after because,
I mean, yeah, that's what
happens when you get married.
He had been inducted into
the military at that point.
I thought I had it
all figured out.
And then I went, as
that old saying goes,
from the frying
pan into the fire.
He had not told me he was
going away to war in two weeks
before he married me.
So I felt betrayed
by him at the get go.
So he came back different.
When I hugged him,
I remember I felt
like I was hugging a stranger.
I don't know this
person anymore.
His medication to get him
through everything, of course,
was what was available,
drugs, alcohol.
I wanted to try to
help him heal himself
and to stop his drinking
because, I mean,
my god, what I was trying to
get away from was alcoholism.
To make a long story
short, we lost our home.
He was seeing another woman,
spending more time with her
than he was with me.
I finally came to the
point where I thought,
I'm so sick of this, I
can't take it anymore.
I stuck with him because
of the same reason
I allowed my father
to touch me at age 9.
It was called fear.
>> In life, usually, it's easier
to get a relationship going
or to get a job than to quit it.
Why?
They're hanging on
because of fear of change.
My expression that I came
up with that helped me
with this that I
actually had a person
gift me with a sign on the
wall is fear is expensive,
love is real, choose wisely.
Some people say fear is a
prayer for what you do not
want, because it's
highly energized thought
and you're thinking
a negative thing,
like I hope I don't
have an accident today.
People who are in a fear
loop repeat over and over
experience.
>> Fear had been rampant
throughout my life.
It was my motivator.
Quite often, all too
often, I was afraid.
I was afraid that I wasn't worth
a better marriage than that,
that my self-worth
was still rather low
and it hadn't gotten
high enough for me
to trust that I could actually
move on and be all right
because this wasn't working.
>> One of the hardest things
to understand is simply this,
that we are programmed.
We've all been programmed.
We talk about the
brain being computer.
It is.
It's a computer beyond anything
that humans have created.
First, you have to
put in a program
so you can operate the computer.
I'm a young boy, how do
I know what the rules are
to be a member of a family and
to be a member of a community?
There are rules.
You can't go out and
do what you want.
I said, well, where do
you get the rules from?
A young kid doesn't read a book.
I say, ah, nature
helped him out.
Said, you want to know the
rules, put you in record,
watch your parents, watch your
siblings, watch your community.
What you're observing is not
going into the conscious mind,
it's not functioning
at that level.
What you're observing is
going download straight
into the subconscious mind.
So where do you get your
behavioral programs from?
Not from you, you get them by
observing people, teachers,
mom, dad, siblings,
and community.
I observed them, download them.
What got downloaded into
your subconscious programming
was never reviewed by you.
It wasn't filtered by you.
I say, what does that mean?
I say, I can get good
programs and bad programs.
I'm just getting programs.
So I have no understanding when
the programs are coming in,
are these really good or bad?
I'm just recording.
So unfortunately, about
70% of those programs
are disempowering,
self-sabotaging, limiting
beliefs that we acquire.
So I say, oh I'm getting
program and most of them
are not going to strengthen
my existence on this planet.
>> All those programs that
we take on by the time of age
seven, most of that
programming is intact.
It's subconscious
but it's there.
It still runs our lives.
So I had to become aware
of those types of things
to begin to shift
and change them.
>> Who am I?
How did I get to be this person?
What aspects of my life have
taught me how not to be,
and what ones do I
run with because I've
been taught how to be?
>> So I came to a
point where I told him,
you either get to stay with
me, quitting alcohol 100%,
getting some help to
do that, or I am gone.
I will divorce you.
Obviously, he did
not believe me.
One night, I returned home
from work to our then-apartment
after losing the house.
And he says, "I've
made my choice.
I'm out with my friends, I'm
drinking, I choose alcohol."
And I remember saying, "OK.
You've made your choice.
I will begin the divorce."
>> When we go through
psychological healing or when
we go through any type of
healing to heal our past,
there needs to be levels
of acceptance of what was.
And then I would take
someone through a process
of writing down all the
negative aspects of their life.
And then I would ask
them the question,
what have you learned from it?
What have you learnt to be and
what have you learnt not to be?
Every challenge in life
is an opportunity to grow.
>> I remember shaking
afterwards, like, wow,
I actually did this.
I actually said that I'm
going to divorce him.
I'm really going to do this.
I'm really going to be free.
And I remember feeling
so elated like, wow,
I have lifted 1,000-pound weight
off my shoulders because living
with him was like that.
It felt like every
day, what's next?
What's going to happen next?
What am I going to have
to contend with now?
And I did follow through
with the divorce, which was
finalized on Valentine's Day.
I remember it was
February 14, and I
remember that was one of
the happiest Valentine's Day
I could remember.
From that time forward, my life
has been moving up, up, up, up.
That one day when I told
him, fine, this is it,
was a huge turning point
for me where I really
stepped into my power.
>> One of the basic
operating frameworks I use is
the framework of story or
narrative or you could even
call it mythology.
Understanding that our
mythology by which I
mean our deep stories that
define who we are and what's
real, our mythology
creates our systems.
But then in turn, our systems
create our mythology by the way
that they create
us as story makers.
>> There's a psychological
construct called future
orientation.
So that's the
extent to which you
look toward the future
timeline or your future horizon
in a positive way.
And it correlates with
education, health, well-being
outcomes.
There have been pretty cool
experiments with folks who
live in dangerous conditions.
If they get training in future
orientation, they do better.
They're more likely to graduate
from high school, for instance.
>> So if you're immersed for
example, in a money economy,
then you're going to be
predisposed to believe that
your well-being is
contrary to my well-being,
that more for you
is less for me.
So our experience of being
in a highly monetized society
generates the story
that maintains
the highly monetized society.
>> People who are at the
intersection of incarceration,
poverty, addiction,
abuse, trauma,
people who you wouldn't think
that the future orientation
would be positive because,
frankly, why would it be,
right?
But if you could
build technology
or if I could build technology
that could help draw that out,
I guess that's what I'm
doing with my hands,
draw out the future
orientation in a positive way,
then that could help people
live better, happier lives.
>> It's not necessarily
about creating a new story.
It's about recognizing
the next story that
resonates the most with
who we want to become.
>> There was a very
important inflection point
in Einstein's discoveries
that was missed by historians,
generally.
Space-time as he describes space
and time being this fabric that
could bend to
produce gravity, it
was interpreted as
only analytical tool
to describe reality,
meaning that it
was a mathematical model and
it had no physicality to it.
The result was that
there was no need
anymore to have this
fluid dynamic space that
used to be called the ether.
And so the ether, which
was the medium from which
all waves moved and all
the dynamics occurred,
was replaced with a conceptual
model called space-time.
Einstein went along with
it for over 10 years,
and eventually realized that
relativity required an ether,
that space be filled with
this energy, with this field.
But by then, it was too late.
Physicists had taken
off with a certain view.
When he tried to
put it back in, they
ignored him, that didn't make
him so popular in the physics
community.
So the result is that
ether was removed.
And I think that was
probably one of the biggest
downfall to understanding our
universe and the physics of it
until modern age.
>> We want to find a
theory of everything.
Well, in physics, everything
is matter, energy, space,
and time.
Those are the four things
that encompass everything.
And now, we have quite possibly
information added to that.
Information is an
aspect of reality
that's as fundamental
as those other things.
>> Let's just start
from the beginning.
Imagine that space is made
of little particles that
are oscillating.
These little particles,
these little fluctuations
are occurring at a scale
that's so far-removed from what
we experience daily that
we have no idea it's there.
Think of these little
bits of fluctuation
as bits of information.
They're flowing in
a coherent manner
together like trillions
of them, billions of them.
Imagine the amount of
sand, grains of sand
you could put in a
bubble from the sun
to Alpha Centauri 40
trillion kilometer bubble.
The sand would be
very, very fine,
like very small resolution
compared to the bubble.
So imagine the number
of grains of sand.
Well, imagine all these
are moving coherently
because they're stuck
in this like vortex.
They're spinning together.
And that region of
space we call a proton.
We, I think, wrongly
assumed that the event
of becoming conscious
was just a random fluke
that all of a sudden we
became aware of our existence,
we started being
able to ask questions
about what is the universe,
how did we get there,
and all this stuff, which
is really not obvious
that this would occur
just from random function.
>> Physics has a way of studying
the fundamentals of space
and time and reality and energy
and what the physical world is.
Scientists studying
physics are trying
to get the same answers
to the same questions
essentially that people
on a spiritual path are,
but they phrase those
questions differently.
>> It's the result of the
mechanics of information
flowing through the
structure of reality,
it is a highly coordinated
effort of reality to produce
something that would eventually
become aware of itself.
It is a consequence
of reality itself,
not some epiphenomena
occurring in your brain.
So that changes a lot of
how we think of ourselves
and how we think of
the universe around us.
>> We can't get a theory of
everything until we understand
how to describe
meaning in the world.
And it's meaning
that gives everything
we do any kind of significance.
>> It's sort of like this
story of the blind men with
the elephant.
One feels the trunk and
says, oh, it's a snake.
The other one feels a leg
and says, no, it's a tree.
And another one feels the
tail and says it's a rope.
But they're not looking
at the whole thing.
And we do not look
at the whole thing
usually, especially in the
scientific academic world
where we're all specialists.
>> It's like the hose worrying
about how do I get the water?
>> We are only looking at
one piece of the picture.
>> Or the toaster being like,
how do I get the electricity?
That's not your business.
You're either plugged
in or you're not.
And when you're plugged
in, you can make toast.
And when you're not
plugged in, you can't.
So not my not my area,
above my pay grade.
>> What are you plugged into?
>> What does a
toaster plug into?
If I'm the toaster?
>> Yeah.
>> I don't know.
[LAUGHS] It's like
scientifically
I have to say there's
a lot unknown here.
I mean, this is the
question of where
does creative impulse
come from, really,
that's the question
you're asking.
Where does creative
impulse come from?
>> If you actually look
at creative genius,
what you see is that it is a
process of opening to non-local
consciousness.
The people we think of
historically as geniuses
are very explicit about this.
Pablo Picasso, for
instance, people
wondered how he
could paint so fast.
He could make these
paintings very quickly.
What he would do is
stare at the canvas
until he saw the painting
on the blank canvas,
and then he would paint it.
Leonardo da Vinci says
exactly the same thing.
He says, I stare at the canvas
until I can see the painting
and then I paint it.
Einstein says he saw
the theory of relativity
one day after being sick.
As he was recovering,
he went out in a canoe
and was just sort
of paddling around
and suddenly had
this breakthrough.
Robert Louis Stevenson
said he would
go to sleep at
night giving what he
called the gremlins of
his mind a suggestion
to produce a story.
And of course, he
became a famous writer.
Frank Lloyd Wright
is commissioned
to build a house we
know is falling waters.
And he puts it off, he puts
it off, he puts it off,
and he gets a
telephone call, "we'll
be there in an hour to
see the blueprints."
And in an hour because he has
had this vision of this house,
he produces these blueprints
so by the time they get there,
they don't know, I
mean, everything's
just as it should be.
Brahms says, I'm in an altered
state of consciousness.
And in that state, like
Beethoven, I hear the music,
I see the rhythms, the chords,
the juxtaposition of the notes.
Mozart, same thing.
Nikola Tesla says that he saw
the electric motor as a vision
as he was walking
across Central Park.
Went back to his laboratory and
told his engineers, build this,
not prototype it
or we'll try this
and then maybe that won't
work and we'll try this.
He just said build this.
And they did and they plugged
it in and turned it on,
and it was the electric motor.
So you see this over
and over and over again.
First tier people who are
known for their creative genius
all talk to you
about what amount
to non-local
consciousness experiences.
>> So it comes from
somewhere, but I don't think
it's a spatial location.
I don't think we can think
about it in space-time.
It might be from
the quantum vacuum,
if you want to think
about it scientifically.
>> When I began the
divorce proceedings,
I moved into a guest bedroom
of a dear friend's home
for a little while so I
could collect some money from
my work, enough to support
me living in my own space,
which I did.
And I began just venturing
out into the world,
just doing things I
had not done before.
And one of them was
playing volleyball.
I liked sports.
I liked to run and cycle and
I kind of given all that up.
I was just trying to hang
on during that marriage.
So I began to be
free, feel free again.
After a couple of
years, I met a man
who became my next
husband, husband number 2.
He was 16 years older than I am.
And I thought he's
too old for me.
My friends said, he's
a nice stable man.
He owns his own business.
He's got-- he has money.
He would take-- you would be
comfortable living with him.
Why don't you give him a try?
I did have a download about
getting involved in teaching.
I was invited into a women's
support group in Seattle.
One of the key elements
that they really focused on
is how not to be a victim.
Prior to that, I'd
been to psychiatrists
and all kinds of special
help but nothing impacted me
like going to this program.
I began to grow and change
in leaps and bounds,
and wanted to
become more involved
with this organization.
After we go through
the programs,
we have an interview
with one of the staff.
I told this woman I dreamt
that I would be working here
with you somehow.
I would like you
to keep it in mind,
if you have any openings
I'd love to come join you.
Just about two days later, this
woman called me and she says,
you know that vision that
kind of dream thing you had?
She says, why don't you
come downtown to my office
and let's talk about this?
And I began working for them.
So it began to open up
new horizons for me.
For many years,
my second marriage
worked well but our
worlds began to grow apart
after a couple of
decades with him.
We moved to Idaho,
built a home on the lake
across from where my
grandparents lived.
He wasn't around
very much anymore.
He would travel to
meet with customers.
I think he said that he put over
80,000 miles on his vehicles
every year.
I saw him maybe on weekends.
Our values had changed.
There were several
years where I was
quite unhappy in the
marriage and feeling stuck.
Like here I am in the place I
love to be more than anywhere
in the world.
Life was blissful in that
regard in the situation I was,
but not in the marriage.
And so there was an inner
stress within me for about,
I don't know, at least five
years, growing, growing,
growing.
What to do?
I want to live where I live.
I don't want to
be with this man.
I had never really been
on a spiritual path.
I had relinquished the
fundamental Christian
upbringing because I
felt that did not work,
that was not for me.
I was searching.
I was really searching at
that point for answers.
I learned about
natural healing when I
began to explore spirituality.
In discovering spirituality,
I also explored
and I'm still exploring, well,
probably never stop exploring,
quantum physics.
I'm fascinated with it.
To me, it all meshes together,
spirituality, natural healing,
quantum physics.
They're kind of the same base.
And that is that
everything, everything
is vibration and
energy and information.
Everything.
My body, your body, everything.
Having that foundational
understanding that everything
is energy, vibration,
information, we're
talking about the field since
that's what we're made of,
we can heal with energy.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> My story really goes back
to when I was seven years old,
which was quite a
long time ago now.
I was really sick
with the measles
and the plan was
that I was going
into the hospital the next day.
I was going to be admitted
and I was going into something
called an oxygen tent.
Now, the tent part of
that sounded interesting
as a seven-year-old, but I was
too sick to really think much
about it.
My parents came into the room.
I'm lying there on the couch
feeling really, really ill.
And my mother said to
my father, "honey," she
said, "will you kneel
down and say a prayer
so that our boy will
be able to get well?"
And so they did.
Now, knowing my dad, I'm sure
it was the first time I'd ever
heard my dad
actually pray, but I
think they were really
worried about me.
I was really sick.
And in the middle of this,
something happened to me.
I had this change that
started at the top of my head.
And it went whoosh through my
body to the soles of my feet,
that fast.
And I was completely totally
healed just in an instant.
Now, to go from being
really sick one moment
to being completely
vibrantly totally
healthy in the next instant is
just so impossible and so crazy
that you don't ever forget it.
And so I remember--
I don't remember anything
else when I was seven.
Most of us don't but I
remember every detail of that
like it happened yesterday.
I held my tongue until
my dad was done praying,
which didn't take long.
And when he was done, I said,
I'm better, I'm totally better.
And they said, "well,
honey, that's fine.
Go back to sleep and tomorrow
you're going in the hospital."
And the next day, proved it.
I was completely well.
So that taught me that
there's a higher power
that we can draw upon.
And we can ask for help
from that higher power.
We can refer to that power
as God or father or whatever,
and it's different depending
on people's belief systems
and so on.
But I've come to the
absolute conclusion
that that higher power
is aware of everything
we're doing all the time
and is willing to help us
if we ask for help.
When I was in practice because
I had learned that there
is this higher power,
I went into practice
and I got into the habit
working with patients
of asking for help from that
higher power with every person
that I saw.
And it was just a
momentary pause, really.
It was a totally private,
totally personal habit.
Nobody ever knew that I was
doing that but everybody
that I saw for many, many years,
I would just take a moment
and just ask for help
from that higher power
to work on that person.
>> One day I was on an
Airplane heading to Glasgow.
I'd never been to
this part of the world
from the Northwestern US,
and I had this thought,
if this plane went down,
it would be OK with me.
It would be an easy way out.
And it-- I remember
I was shocked
at having a thought like that.
I'd never had
thoughts like that.
And then it occurred to me when
I stopped and really looked
inside myself, you
are so unhappy.
I'm so unhappy in my marriage.
It's like I really couldn't
admit it to myself fully
until that moment.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I was part of the
teaching team that
went to present at the
University of Glasgow.
I thought I must have
the worst jet lag
ever because I was depressed.
I was lethargic.
I didn't have any energy.
I felt kind of achy all over.
Our whole group was scheduled to
take a tour of Scotland, which
I did but I didn't enjoy it very
much because I was just not--
I just didn't feel like myself.
And I'd sit with
my nose in a book
and not even look out
the window half the time
at the glorious
Scottish countryside.
I didn't participate
in the teaching team.
I stayed in my room and rested.
By the time I returned
home to Idaho,
the symptoms were
really growing.
When I showered, it looked
like my whole head of hair
was left there.
And I could feel my hair and
thank god, I got any left.
It was so painful in
my knees I could barely
make it up and down the stairs.
Every day, new
symptoms would come.
I looked at my hands
and they were swollen.
And they were stiff and they
were also really painful.
They kind of looked
like baseball gloves.
They had turned leathery
and stiff and hard.
If I just laid flat on
the sofa, I had no pain.
But that is not a
way to spend a life.
My local doctors didn't
know what to do with me.
They said, you need to
get to a rheumatologist
and be diagnosed
because you seems
like you have some kind
of autoimmune disease
or something.
We don't know what it is.
I was very humbled.
I was embarrassed because I
was teaching energy healing.
I was supposed to be living
health, example of health
to be teaching energy healing.
And I wasn't.
Finally, there came a point
when I could no longer
dress or undress myself.
If I fell down, I could
not pick myself up.
People like my
husband at that time
say, you should just
get a wheelchair.
Just get a wheelchair and
make it easy on yourself.
But I refused to do that.
When it came to the point
that my eyesight was beginning
to fade and I spent a full
week in Seattle for emergency
testing.
I was taken to a small
consultation room
by this female rheumatologist
to be given my diagnosis
and prognosis.
She told me you
have a rare disease,
it's called scleroderma.
And it's an excess buildup
of collagen under your skin.
I know it's painful but
you're going to have it
for the rest of your life.
This disease will not go away.
You will be an invalid
the rest of your days.
You have to get used to this.
And then I was sent home.
>> The people are programmed
that their health is beyond
their control.
Then they seek
someone powerful that
will facilitate their health.
And so they give up power, I'm
powerless so I have no power,
but I accept what you say.
>> I knew I had
a choice to make.
I could have made her right,
believed her, but I didn't.
So I made a pact that I'm going
to come out of this disease
even though they say, the
experts say it's not possible,
no one's ever lived
beyond this disease.
You always die a painful death.
That's how it is.
I mean, that is the accepted
belief about scleroderma,
you do not heal.
And I thought, they
don't know everything.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> There's some kind of
surrender of control that is
necessary always to
achieve the impossible.
Maybe you've experienced this
when in times of your life
where you were like totally at
a loss and synchronicity started
to pop up everywhere.
>> I came across a very, very
powerful paper written by Dr.
Glen Rein, a biophysicist, where
he had been doing experiments
and found some interesting
things about DNA and how
our intention can literally
reprogram the DNA within us.
>> The standard explanation is
that the brain can physically
get to all organs because
they're connected physically
by nerves.
Now we're talking
about communication
between the brain and the skin.
We need to set up a
communication between the mind
and the energies of the skin and
inform the energy of the skin
to inform the physical organ,
the skin, to heal itself.
That's what healing
is all about.
Now normally, you take a drug.
OK, well, that's
fine if you want
to work at the chemical level.
Most people go to a
healer and say, oh you
know how to talk to my skin.
Please talk to my skin
and make it better.
Annaliese read my research
and she said, oh my god, I
can do this myself.
>> I read his paper several
times and made myself a list
of elements from what I
understood from that paper.
And use the elements
on myself every day,
actually several times a day,
for reprogramming the DNA back
to a healthy state.
>> When you're dealing
with a healer who's outside
of your body, it's
the same thing.
It's their energy,
which has to resonate
with the energy of your skin
and inform your skin how
to get better.
She was clever enough to say,
well, it's the same concept.
I just don't want to direct
my energy outside my body.
I want to direct it
inside to my skin.
>> As I began to work with
the subconscious programming
and with Glen Rein's process
of using these elements
for reprogramming, my
body began to heal.
>> She didn't have to be
specific about her intention.
She didn't have to
talk to the DNA,
although some people do,
that's one way to do it,
whether the DNA is
outside of your body
or inside of your body.
She did it a different way,
and this is one of the ways
that they use in imagery
techniques these days.
Psychologists use this a lot.
You image the end product.
You imagine yourself
being healthy.
You imagine the final
outcome of what you want,
and that's enough.
You don't have to worry
about the details.
>> Five months after
that dreadful prognosis
and diagnosis, I was completely
back to normal and was deemed
a miracle.
>> The body is
intelligent enough to say,
oh that's what we want, OK.
I know how to do that.
I have enough
internal intelligence
that I can control my own DNA.
Thank you, you don't have
to tell me to do that.
I know to do that.
If that's the outcome
you want, then that's
what we've got to do, and
it does it all by itself.
Because the body
has its own innate
intrinsic self-healing
mechanisms.
All kinds of which
some are known,
the energetic ones are
not known but the chemical
ones are certainly known, and
that's exactly what she did.
She activated her own
internal self-healing.
>> I think there's still a
predominant belief that our DNA
is our destiny.
Like we're born with
certain color eyes,
certain color hair, bone
structure, whatever.
But what people don't realize
is that most of our DNA
is reprogrammable.
The food we eat,
the air we breathe,
the electromagnetism
around us, predominantly
is our beliefs, our thoughts,
and our emotions reprogram
our DNA.
It's always listening
and responding.
That's how powerful our
thoughts, beliefs, and feelings
are.
>> So the chemistry of the blood
is controlling the genetics
and the behavior, but the
chemistry comes from the brain.
I go, yeah, but which chemistry?
Whatever picture is
held in the mind.
So for example, if
you say I'm in love,
that's a beautiful picture,
all the romantic movie stuff.
If that's in your
mind, the chemistry
that comes from
that love primarily
is dopamine, which is pleasure,
that's why we seek it.
Oxytocin is another
chemical release in love
because that bonds
me to the source.
Vasopressin is released
because that chemical
makes me more attractive to my
partner so my partner stays.
And most importantly,
growth hormone.
Growth hormone is
what keeps you healthy
and maintains your biology.
>> The energy from my mind is
affecting the energy of the DNA
which then informs the
physical DNA to wind or unwind.
>> Every single one of
us can reprogram our DNA,
as outlandish as that sounds.
>> I can give you an example
from myself that is a parallel
to what Annaliese went through.
OK, so I'm the
scientist and I bring
in all these healers with
this special gift who
are this special energy
that they can heal the DNA.
Well, I was all set up
to do an experiment once
and the healer didn't show up.
And I'm sitting there
going, well, what--
come on, you guys,
I'm all set up.
What am I supposed to do?
Do it-- OK, I'll do it myself.
All right, what
the hell, you know,
I didn't want to
waste the whole setup.
So I meditate, so I just
figured, OK, I'll meditate
and I'll try to project my
energy going out of my hands
into the DNA, affecting the DNA.
And sure enough, when
I analyzed the results,
I was able to change
the DNA physically.
And I can't tell
you how empowering
that is to be able to go,
holy shit, pardon my French,
I did that.
>> We're all equally powerful.
You have been programmed not
to have power because if I take
away your power, I have
the power and you don't.
So you start out
everybody equally powerful
then you buy teachings and
the teachings disempower you
every day.
And the teacher is getting
more powerful every day.
Whether it's
religion or medicine,
we give up power and then say
that those people, the doctor,
the priest, they're
the powerful ones.
Listen to what they have to say.
And then you listen to what
they have to say and almost all
of it is like, I'm sorry,
your prognosis in this life
is not so good and you go, oh.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> How is there ever going to
be peace in the Middle East?
Realistically, how
are we ever going
to reverse the course of
ecocide on this planet?
It's totally unrealistic given
what we've accepted as real.
But at the same
time, you don't feel
like you're in a fantasy
world that it'll be fine
and you're just ignoring
the cancer diagnosis,
or you're just ignoring
some big problem.
Like you're truly
in a released state.
Then the synchronicities
line up and you
realize that there is
an intelligence at work
beyond what we understand.
>> Consciousness is translated
by the brain into complementary
chemistry, which
goes into the blood.
And that blood nourishes and
instructs 50 trillion cells.
>> Consciousness
is consciousness.
It's one mass.
What you're doing
is your auric field
is then becoming more
in touch, more expanded
into that universal
consciousness
whereby by you then
begin to access elements
of consciousness
that can guide you,
that can help you through life.
We don't have to connect because
we're automatically connected.
>> There was a lady with a
small family apple orchard.
She learned how
to set in her mind
an image that she then strongly
energized with intention
and prayer to set this
sort of geodesic weather
bubble over her farm so that
no hail would fall on it.
She'd found a way to very
strongly and specifically align
her mind with the support of
vibrational intelligences.
She was articulating them as
archangel Michael and ministry
of all angels.
My dad used to talk about
the celestial civil service.
And she tracked
the weather by eye
and she tracked it on radar.
At any time she saw hail
coming, she'd reinforce this.
And she shared that there were
occasions where the hail had
been so heavy in the region
that nets, hail nets established
to prevent hail from
falling on crops
had been destroyed
and taken down
on farms both to the left
and the right of her,
but no hail had
fallen on her farm.
So she came to me
already hail free
because she was supplying
their apples to a supermarket,
and the supermarket defined
apple size literally
to the millimeter.
She was having to harvest this
orchard three times from start
to finish in order to pick
the fruit as they reached
supermarket dimensional
specifications.
Otherwise, they wouldn't
have categorized
as an apple of that kind.
So she was tripling her labor
and time costs in the harvest.
So she talks to her
trees about this
and he asks them
what they're up for.
And she came back with apples.
She shared that outside
of a very small number
of random ones that were
obviously out of phase.
But 98% of the apples all came
to supermarket specifications
for her all at once.
She was very grateful
and very happy.
So within that
context, we understand
that in some fashion, a real
and actual communication
happened between the
person and the plant,
that it was actually
heard, received, understood
in its own way by the plant,
and that the plant had
the willingness desire and
capacity to change its growing
pattern to the optimum benefit
of its steward caretaker
person.
>> This is a subject that
scientists can't study
because you can't measure
the energies of a spirit.
You could barely see
them or feel them.
Now, I took a slightly
different approach.
My hypothesis is
that these all have
a different kind of energy.
And maybe we could
distinguish one kind of spirit
from another by virtue of
the energy that they contain.
So it turns out
that some people can
bring these entities into their
physical body and talk to them,
deal with them, tell
them what to do.
And I met such a
healer once who was
able to call on the
energy of Saint Michael.
We have this entity
come into her body
and she directs it
toward this test tube.
Now the test tube contain DNA.
DNA has lots of properties and
lots of things you can measure.
I measured the frequency
signature of the DNA.
There are various
ways of measuring
the frequencies of DNA.
So it turns out
that Saint Michael
had a very
characteristic signature.
When I went to China,
I had my qigong master
treat the DNA sample
and that person turned
on three different
frequencies, one of which
was the same that was
turned on by Saint Michael.
So in a way, we can
now say that there
is some overlap between
the energy coming off
of the body, in this
case a qigong master,
and the energy of Saint Michael
because they both turned
on this one
particular frequency.
It was a 94 kilohertz of DNA.
I want to know if
different entities have
different signatures.
If Saint Michael comes back
in on the second occasion,
will he have the same effect?
Or maybe he spoke to
God just a few hours ago
and he's got all this God energy
and his energy is different.
That would affect
the DNA differently.
Maybe he met with
my Aunt Matilda
the other day, brought
his energy down.
I mean, they do interact
with humans, these spirits.
Does that change their energy?
There's all kinds of
questions you could
ask with an assay like that.
>> So in order for
those things to happen,
which are beyond what we
understand how to make happen,
i.e., beyond what we
understand as practical,
we're going to have to tap
into powers of change that are
beyond the practical, which is
a code word for beyond the realm
of our control.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I have studied who I am.
I've studied what the
world around me is.
My work in trying to understand
the relationships that
make our world what it
is, a world system where
all things are interacting and
dependent on all other things,
not just the economy but also
the ecology, the culture,
as well as the finance.
I developed the idea of
a universe which is based
on the strong interconnections.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> We think that we're
separate and yet as Nelson
Mandela's philosophy tells
us, it's a philosophy called
Ubuntu.
It's a very profound African
philosophy that says,
I need you to be me.
You need me to be you.
So there's this profound
sense of interconnectedness
that all Indigenous traditions
and all ancient wisdoms
and universal spiritual
traditions have at their heart.
>> We can have a complete view
of the physical world which has
very profound meaning in our
understanding of ourselves,
in our understanding
of our environment,
our relationship to each
other, and understanding
of our consciousness
in the midst of it.
>> We're all different nodes in
this amazing cosmic symphony.
We're all players in
an improv jazz session
because we don't
know what's coming.
So that symphony
is not yet written.
Improv jazz players
listen to each other.
They have to.
To keep that coherence,
they need to hear and listen
to each other.
They're literally playing
together into an adventure
that they don't know the
future of but they've shown up,
they've been willing
to show up and play
that adventure together.
>> The grave danger is to
do what is known as a reset.
Don't reset it, don't go
back to what there was.
The opportunity is
there to go forward
so we have to create
the world, not just try
to redo where we have been.
Hopefully we can do
something better.
We can do it.
Will we do it?
That's the big question.
>> Research done at Van
Rensselaer Polytech showed that
whether it's a school
committee or a church group
or a neighborhood
group or a nation,
when 10% of the cohort
changes consciousness,
the whole cohort has to change
to accommodate for that.
Change in our cultures began not
because some authority passes
a law or somebody
important or rich stands up
and says we're going to do this.
But because ordinary people
choose something different.
I think that the most
powerful force on Earth
is the collective consciousness,
intentioned consciousness
of a group of ordinary people.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> It was something
that is happening to me,
happening to me, coming to me
from the experience of music
as a child.
From the age of nine,
I was playing concerts
in solo and also with orchestra,
performing to a public
with a group of
musicians who follow you,
who become one with you.
It's such an
incredible experience,
a feeling of being
fulfilled, of being one,
of being carried forward.
You know, it's
difficult to describe.
But that's what motivated me.
That's what I've been
searching for in science
also, for that interaction
and for this collaboration.
Society becomes healthy if
it has this collaboration.
I'm searching for that.
Nature operates like that.
The universe is like that.
All things are connected.
All things are conserved.
I feel that this is based
on what I experienced,
what I've always experienced.
And I want to cultivate
this experience.
It is what makes me whole
and makes me living.
>> You know that vision
I had when I was 12,
I was loved and protected.
I still am.
I'm alive.
I shouldn't be.
I should be dead according
to the professional people
in white coats.
I should not be here.
I had information that
this specialist did not.
What excites me about
this whole scenario
is knowing that there's
nothing special about me,
anybody can do this.
And I've seen other people
do it as well, to turn around
a life-threatening disease.
I feel more enthused about
learning more about how it all
plays together,
our spirituality,
our emotional
lives, all of that.
To me, I am always searching
for greater understanding.
[MUSIC PLAYING]